God is gloriously understandable in measure through a glass darkness.
And God is gloriously enjoyable with the heart, and we are commanded more often to enjoy him than to understand him.
And therefore worship, which is to give glory to God Edward, says, must both see him and savor him, and preaching
is a kind of communication that embodies that, I believe, better than any other kind.
Some people think of preaching as mostly an information dump, just doctrine and definitions.
But what John Piper says here helps us rethink the purpose of preaching altogether.
I'm Dan Kruver.
In this episode of Light and Truth,
John Piper explains why preaching is uniquely suited to help us both understand God and delight in him.
This message was originally delivered in Wheaton, Illinois at the Act III Reformation Conference on October 28, 1999.
Now, here's our second question.
The first question was why the word is central?
And the second question
is why preaching is central.
Why preaching?
You could do it a lot of other ways.
Put an overhead here and teach and take questions.
You have to preach for 30 minutes.
I do that on Wednesday nights for 45 minutes with my people.
You could have break up into small groups and discuss the Bible.
30 minutes or so.
We do that on Sunday night.
Try to push everybody into a small group.
Get a lecture and give all kinds of historical backgrounds and deal with critical issues in the New Testament, historical issues like that.
Why this thing called preaching?
So that's what I want to try to get at now.
Let's go back to the text, drop down into chapter 4.
I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is judge the living and the dead by the appearing of his kingdom, preach the Word.
Now let's just linger over this unparalleled, I don't know what to call it, as separation, like an oath, sah.
Take the pieces of it.
Leading up to this simple command, preach the word, you have an unparalleled introduction.
solemnly charge you, D.R.
Mark Turumai.
I solemnly earnestly call something to witness here.
So he gets at the earnestness of it all.
He wants you to feel the weight of this.
Timothy, get ready.
I'm going to give a big, long, weighty introduction to this teeny, weeny, massive command because I want you to be ready for it.
So I solemnly charge you, and then he says, in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, I am now speaking with God as my witness
He is watching what I say.
We'll call me account to what I say.
If I misstep here, I will be slapped or crushed or damned or something.
And therefore, I tremble at what I'm about to tell you to do.
God is watching me.
Christ is watching me.
Christ is watching you as a reader.
Christ is watching you.
God is watching you.
When you preach the word, God will be attending.
Christ will be attending.
You never do anything in your life.
Timothy without God watching, attending the Creator, the Sustainer, the Redeemer, always there, always near, always assessing, always judging, always sustaining, always working.
You are never on your own.
Don't think we're far away from Him.
And, as if that were not enough, this Christ who is always attending
What I say and what you say is the judge of the living and the dead.
Why say that?
Just before you say preach the word.
Because you Timothy and I Paul are going to die.
And we're going to be judged.
And Timothy, perhaps even more significant than that, when you preach, you will be preaching to people who will die.
And if they're alive, when the judge comes, he'll judge them as the living.
And if they die, he'll judge them as the dead.
But they're all going to be judged by this attending Christ.
And therefore, he's watching what you say to them.
He's going to hold you accountable by what you say to them as to how he will judge them.
I say to my people very often at certain points, at the end of the sermon or in the middle, I have now dispensed myself as well as I can over this gospel truth.
My hands are clean from your blood.
You will be asked, unbeliever, on the judgment day, do you remember, October
Never last Sunday was.
When Pastor John Piper preached, you were there.
You heard him.
Why didn't you believe?
I was speaking.
Brothers, when we speak the Word of God, we speak to those who will be judged and the judge will remind them of what they heard in our siblings and hold them accountable for whether they believed or not.
And then, as if that were not enough, before I tell you to preach the word, I remind you that the one who's coming to judge the living and the dead comes and charges us by his appearing and his kingdom.
It's a very strange accusative there, just kind of dangles out there in the Greek sentence.
With reference to his appearing, with reference to his kingdom, he's going to come
He's going to come.
And when he comes, he's going to vindicate himself as king.
No, man, that's going to be very encouraging for every preacher who realizes that no matter what people say, this Lord that he is heralding is going to appear and establish his kingdom.
And every naysayer will be put in his place.
And you obscure
criticized, laughed at, low paid, faithful servant will be vindicated.
So preach the word he says, preach it.
Now, what I see here is an answer to a question that I've had.
I've asked myself, all right, if I do a little word study of preaching,
Words like caruso, ungello, cata ungello, uangalinsamai.
I do these word studies in the New Testament to find out if there's a prominent role of preaching.
What I find out is that almost everywhere those words are used for evangelistic preaching.
In the street, on the hill,
And so I want to know whether there's a New Testament warrant for preaching in the assembly.
And here we have something, I think, significant.
To prove citizen there's to rebuke, exhort, patient, and instruction.
The context here looks not like you've answered.
It doesn't look like evangelism.
Don't think it is.
I think he's telling Timothy to be faithful in preaching to his people, reprove them and rebuke them and exhort them and be patient with them and instruct them.
So at least we have a pointer here that preaching is in the context of community life as he writes the Timothy.
So my first answer to why we preach
in worship is that the Bible says to do it.
Preach the Word.
Here's my second answer.
There is a historical warrant for it, traced from Ezra through the synagogue into the early church.
And let me just hit those high points for you.
We read for you Nehemiah 8, 6 to 8.
Ezra, bless the Lord.
The great God and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground.
And this is a worship study.
Hands lifted, faces bowed, Amen, Amen, they're worshiping.
The Levites help the people to understand the law while the people remain in their places.
And they read from the book from the law of God clearly.
and gave the sense so that the people understood the reading.
So there you have, I think, in nugget a model for what comes into the synagogue and then came into the early church and has been practiced almost without exception for the whole history of the Christian church.
You have a worship setting, you have a book, the Word of God, you have appointed
Anointed people, Levites in this case, they are helping the people understand.
They are giving the sense and the people are saying, Amen, amen, and lifting their hands and falling on their face and worshiping the Lord.
May it happen in our assemblies.
So you come into the New Testament now and here you find Jesus going into the synagogue in Luke chapter 4 for 16.
Remember in Nazareth, they give him a book, a scroll,
with an appointed text providential today he said after reading this Isaiah text today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing and he begins to make some very radical application that almost gets him thrown off a cliff so I think you have it in Ezra's experience you have the synagogue there and Jesus
complying with that pattern, and then you come into the Book of Acts and you find it several times.
For example, in Acts 13, 14, on the Sabbath day, they went into the synagogue.
Paul, one of us, they went into a synagogue and sat down after the reading of the law and the prophets.
The synagogue officials sent to them saying, brethren, if you have any word of exhortation,
For the people, say it.
And for the next 20 verses, it preaches and gives the word of exhortation from Old Testament Scripture.
There's an interesting verse in Acts 15, 21 at the Jerusalem Council where James is speaking, settling this big issue about circumcision.
And he says something almost in passing as they get ready to send the letter out
He says, I'll go and present it there, because Moses has those who preach him in the synagogue every Sabbath, kerusantos.
Moses is heralded in the synagogue week in and week out.
That's the word used for synagogue preaching.
And that's what the early church walked into.
That's what the apostles walked into.
And you can imagine, as little churches were formed by some notable women and some men coming out of a synagogue and forming a little assembly, what are they going to do?
They're going to do something like that.
So another reason, besides the fact that we are commanded to preach in the context of worship, 2 Timothy 4, 2, the pattern
of history suggests that this is what we should do.
Now, there's one last main argument that I have.
And for me, this is the most basic as I have any kind of self questioning about whether my calling is appropriate in devoting so much of my energy and so much of my life to biblical exposition called preaching on Sunday morning
It's a theological reason that holds me fast.
And I'm going to quote Jonathan Edwards here who has taught me these things more powerfully than anyone else.
This is a quote from one of his miscellaneous, namely number 448.
And I'll just tell you so that you'll listen carefully that these three sentences
are as foundational to my theology as anything anybody outside the Bible has ever written.
Quote, God glorifies himself toward the creature in two ways.
One, by appearing to their understanding.
in communicating Himself to their hearts, in their rejoicing and delighting in, and enjoying the manifestations which He makes of Himself.
God is glorified not only in His glories being seen, but by His glory being rejoiced in.
When those that see it delight in it,
God is more glorified than if they only see it.
His glory is then received by the whole soul, both by the understanding and by the heart.
End quote.
Now, what that text does from Edwards is show that owing to the very nature of God,
as one who is knowable and enjoyable.
The very nature of God, as knowable with the mind and enjoyable with the heart, demands that worship be shaped in those two ways.
There must be in worship a seeing of God for who He really is through the mind.
and the exercise of the understanding.
And if worship is to be worship, there must be a savoring, a tasting, and enjoying of God with the heart.
You separate these, you do not have biblical worship.
You have either emotionalism or intellectualism.
The ism on the end of those two words means intellect minus the balancing enjoyment of God
or emotion minus the ground of the emotion in the truth of God.
If you try to separate those two, and churches are earning on these two sides all the time, and our great calling is to see that our church does not do that.
Many churches are way too event intellectualistic in the Reformed community.
Scared to death of emotion.
Suspecting John Piper.
Whoa!
Charismatic!
What?
And many Charismatics have simply lost their heads.
They have lost their heads.
It's a very sad thing when a church loses its head or loses its heart.
over and over the Bible causes.
Think of these things.
Consider Christ.
Meditate on the law of the Lord.
Remember His mighty works of all.
And just as often and probably more often rejoice, fear, mourn, delight, hope, be glad, rejoice and come with singing into His presence.
Now, what's that got to do with preaching?
everything, because my definition of preaching is this.
It is the one form of speech designed by God to perform both acts of glorifying God in one moment, namely
the exposition of the truth of God that he might be seen for who he really is and the exaltation over the truth of God so that both the preacher and the people might be caught up in appropriate emotional responses to it.
Therefore preaching, in my definition, is expository exaltation.
not exposition without exaltation and not exaltation without exposition.
My job, as I stand in the pulpit, is to make sure that I speak understandable, mind-enlightening, Bible-saturated truth so that my people grow in a coherent view of biblical doctrine, and that I do it
in a way that they can see it sets me on fire and changes the way I parent, changes the way I love Noel, changes the way I love food or not, changes the way I handle my money, changes the way I delight or not in all this beautiful creation that it is the center of my heart and my being
and cultivates that and then build a worship service that supports that.
Which means it is going to be vital and vibrant and emotional and textually orthodox and biblically saturated.
The word in 2 Timothy 4 2 is when it says preach the word.
The word is K. Rookson.
The word isn't didox on.
The word is keruzon.
That word keruzo means herald, announce.
Hear ye, hear ye, hear ye.
The king has a word for us this morning.
He is God, and there is no other.
He is the Savior.
He has declared an amnesty.
for all those who will lay down their arms of rebellion, son their names to the amnesty, receive the righteousness he's provided in his son, yield up themselves to the living God, and be reckoned righteous by him.
He has an announcement to make.
Preaching that just explains a word, tells a story, explains a word, tells a story, creates a whole different atmosphere than, here ye,
Hear ye, hear ye.
Now listen, you might be sitting there thinking, oh, this guy preaches to 1,000 or 1,500 people or whatever.
And you do that when you're standing up, people are like this in a big room like this.
And I preach to 50 people or 30.
It's not the same.
I don't buy it.
The reason is this.
It's right off my front burner.
In my church, there are people with allergies that are so severe that we have tried now for years to have a scent-free service, a fragrance-free service for them in the first hour, and that's a fucking trend, but I get real mean with my fragrance-wearing people in the first service and say, you don't belong here.
However, some of them are still so ill that we've made a room downstairs for them now and put a TV down there with closed-circuit
They, this room must be fragrant free, and that doesn't work.
So I went to speak to them at their home.
They asked me, we're going to have a Sunday night worship service.
So on the fourth one, they asked me to come.
There were 12 people there.
And I sat like Jesus to preach.
Jesus read the text and sat down to preach.
That's a good exercise sometimes.
I do admit I sat on the edge.
of the chair.
And I didn't cross my legs.
And I did bounce from time to time.
But I loved it.
I know you can preach to 12 people.
You don't shout as loud as I just did right then.
Of course you don't.
But there is a measure.
Have you ever heard Alexander Scurby read the Bible?
Raise your hand if you ever heard the Bible read.
That man
with probably a decibel range of just a very small range can communicate the shouting of the Israelites or the whispering of God and he just varies a little bit because you can do things with your voice that communicates passion without doing it the way I'm doing it right now which would be wholly inappropriate in a room of twelve people but there's a way to do it with passion and it is preaching it is a combination
clear-headed exposition with passionate love for the God and the truth that you are expositive.
And so I close now by just reminding us of what worship is, who God is, and plead with you to pick up worship as the central work of your community and preaching as the central work of worship.
God is gloriously understandable in measure through a glass darkly.
And God is gloriously enjoyable with the heart, and we are commanded more often to enjoy Him than to understand Him.
And therefore worship, which is to give glory to God, Edward, says, must both see Him and savor Him.
and preaching is a kind of communication that embodies that, I believe, better than any other kind.
Let's pray.
Father in heaven, we want to see you in this conference.
Your excellency, your central reality in a world like ours, we want to see you.
So draw near now, I pray, and show yourself in these days that we might
be refreshed with a fresh glimpse of your glory in our own soul.
Stir us up to herald the Word of God.
Jesus' name and them.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Light and Truth, where we are committed to providing God-centered preaching to help you see Christ clearly and treasure Him truly.
I'm your host, Dan Kruver.
On our next episode,
Jumpiper continues our eight-part series, Living and Dying for the Glory of Christ with a message titled, The God Who Refuses to Be Served.
I hope you'll join us.
For more resources, visit desiringgod.org.